# CROCO
Coastal ocean modeling using limited domain sizes and open boundaries has been a standard practice for decades (Mellor, 1998; Haidvogel et al., 2008). As computing power has increased, the opportunity to simulate conditions that exceed the limits for standard oceanographic model approximations (Fox-Kemper et al., 2019) have arisen in the coastal modeling context (e.g., Boussinesq incompressibility, hydrostasy, and the traditional approximation of the Coriolis force). Sharp topographic features, strong internal waves and submesoscales, boundary-layer turbulence, sea level rise, and ice–ocean phase transitions and many other phenomena of coastal interest could be more directly simulated with these assumptions relaxed, rather than relying on parameterizations or numerical fixes to approximate the impacts of smaller scales. By contrast, large-eddy simulation codes have long been used that do not make the hydrostatic approximation to study three-dimensional turbulence, but these codes often rely on numerical approaches (e.g., Fourier spectral methods) that make them unable to handle realistic topography and other aspects of coastal modeling. This paper is an evaluation of these different types of codes alongside problems for which they can be directly compared for accuracy and efficiency.
The Coastal and Regional Ocean COmmunity model (CROCO) is a modeling platform for the regional and coastal ocean primarily supported by French institutes working on environmental sciences and applied mathematics (IRD, INRIA, IFREMER, CNRS, and SHOM). Built on a version (ROMS_AGRIF) of the Regional Ocean Modeling System and the non-hydrostatic kernel of SNH (a pseudo-compressible solver developed in Toulouse), CROCO has the objective to resolve problems of very fine-scale coastal areas through nesting while at the same time operating as a standard coarse-resolution coastal modeling system (Debreu et al., 2016). Activating the non-Boussinesq and non-hydrostatic kernel (NBQ) of CROCO is the precondition to solving the pseudo-compressible Navier–Stokes equations, allowing direct simulation of complex non-hydrostatic physical problems such as overturning and three-dimensional turbulence. The simulations carried out here were in version 1.0 of CROCO (Fan et al., 2023a), and similar results were obtained with version 1.2. Non-hydrostatic effects become important when the horizontal and vertical scales of motion are similar (Wedi and Smolarkiewicz, 2009; Fox-Kemper et al., 2019), and they are required in the study of small-scale phenomena in the ocean which are not in hydrostatic balance (Marshall et al., 1997). CROCO and ROMS_AGRIF have long been applied to solve problems at coastal-scale or mesoscale ocean problems, such as coupled biogeochemical simulations and submesoscale and river plume simulations, where applying a resolution of more than 1 km is standard. In this paper, CROCO NBQ is used at meter-scale resolution within a total domain size and depth of 100 to 300 m. In ocean model simulations, the turbulence tends to moderate with increasing depth. Figure 1 shows that the resulting water mean velocity as simulated by CROCO is sheared as depth increases; the degree to which this occurs results from the activity and momentum transported vertically by turbulence.
